Update section on centering images with the figure shortcode (#596)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/write/shortcodes/index.md

These values are _only_ used for determining the image aspect ratio and don't equate to the final displayed size.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Center an image example

You can center an image using the `figure` shortcode by adding the following properties:

- Add the `class="w-100p"` property.
- Add the `link-class="w-fit mx-auto d-flex flex-direction-column"` property.
- Add the `max-width="WIDTHpx"` property, replacing `WIDTH` with the value you want for your image. The value should be lower than the original image's width.
- Optionally, you can add the `width` and `height` properties with the original image values, without pixels or percentages. For example, for a 800x600 image, you can add `width="800" height="600"`.

> 

Author: @jdbaldry I think this set of instructions should be enough to help someone center an image, but Nate also shared with me a longer explanation for each property, which I think could be helpful if someone wants to understand what exactly each property does...

I was thinking of adding it here using the `collapse` shortcode, do you think that's an ok use for it? 🤔

These values are _only_ used for determining the image aspect ratio and don't equate to the final displayed size.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Center an image example

You can center an image using the `figure` shortcode by adding the following properties:

- Add the `class="w-100p"` property.
- Add the `link-class="w-fit mx-auto d-flex flex-direction-column"` property.
- Add the `max-width="WIDTHpx"` property, replacing `WIDTH` with the value you want for your image. The value should be lower than the original image's width.
- Optionally, you can add the `width` and `height` properties with the original image values, without pixels or percentages. For example, for a 800x600 image, you can add `width="800" height="600"`.

This is an example for centering an image that's 1275x738 pixels:

```markdown
{{</* figure src="/static/img/docs/grafana-cloud/k8sPods.png" width="1275" height="738" max-width="500px" class="w-100p" link-class="w-fit mx-auto d-flex flex-direction-column" caption="Pod view in Grafana Kubernetes Monitoring" caption-align="center" */>}}
```

For more details about what each parameter does, refer to the section below.

> {{< collapse title="Center image properties" >}}

Author: @jdbaldry ok, I added the collapsable section here with some of the information Nate shared with me. 🤓

Would you mind taking a look and letting me know if it all makes sense? And I can go in and fix the Vale issues afterwards.

When centering an image on a page, each property you have to add to the `<figure>` shortcode has a different purpose:

- The `class="w-100p"` property specifies that the `<figure>` element should take up 100% of the width of its container.
- The `link-class` attribute values are:

>   - `w-fit` specifies that the width of the <a> element that wraps around the image should fit its contents. For example, if the image's width is 500px, the width of its parent <a> element will be set to match.

Reviewer: need to wrap the HTML tags in inline code so it renders as text and not as a link

Author: Nice catch, thank you!

For raster images, such as PNG or JPG files, width and height should usually be set to the original dimensions of the image. That provides the greatest flexibility for image optimization. However, for SVG images, width should typically be set to 100% and height left blank. That will expand the image to fill its container while maintaining the image's aspect ratio.

In cases where the desired display width of an image is smaller than the max width of the container, it's important to calculate the correct height so as to maintain the image's aspect ratio without warping the image. To do this, you can divide the desired image width by the image's full width and multiply by the original height: (new-width / full-width) * full-height = new-height . For example, if the original image dimensions are 1000px x 750px and you want the image displayed at 500px wide, you'd calculate (500 / 1000) * 750 = 325, or width="500" height="325".

<!-- vale Grafana.GoogleWill = YES -->

> {{< /collapse >}}

Reviewer: I wonder if the RedHat regular expression doesn't incorrectly flag this: https://github.com/redhat-documentation/vale-at-red-hat/blob/main/.vale/styles/RedHat/OxfordComma.yml

> {{< /collapse >}}

Reviewer: Testing in https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit/pull/608 but will probably follow up tomorrow rather than tonight.

> {{< /collapse >}}

Reviewer: Hmm, my experimentation with that regular expression makes me think it's no effective enough. I appreciate that false positives are a nuisance but I think the RedHat rule misses too many useful cases.

I think in this case, you'll have to add a Vale ignore comment. In the future, this rule will be demoted to a suggestion.

These values are _only_ used for determining the image aspect ratio and don't equate to the final displayed size.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Center an image example

You can center an image using the `figure` shortcode by adding the following properties:

- Add the `class="w-100p"` property.
- Add the `link-class="w-fit mx-auto d-flex flex-direction-column"` property.

> - Add the `max-width="WIDTHpx"` property, replacing `WIDTH` with the value you want for your image. The value should be lower than the original image's width.

Reviewer 2: "The value should be lower than the original image's width." isn't entirely accurate.
```suggestion
- Add the `max-width="WIDTHpx"` property, replacing `WIDTH` with the value of the maximum width at which your image can be displayed across all breakpoints. This property only affects raster images whose intrinsic (original) width is greater than the property value.
```

Author: How about we change it to this:

```suggestion
- Add the `max-width="WIDTHpx"` property, replacing `WIDTH` with the maximum width value you want to display your image. This property only affects raster images, such as PNG or JPG files, whose original width is greater than the property value.
```

I'm thinking if we mention "breakpoints", we should probably include an explanation of what they are as well, and I'm not sure if that's something we need here. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Works for me!

> - Optionally, you can add the `width` and `height` properties to help optimize the page. If you're using a raster image, such as a PNG or JPG file, you can set the properties with the original image values, without pixels or percentages. For example, for a 800x600 image, you can add `width="800" height="600"`. For a vector image, you have to calculate the values based on the width you want for the image with the formula: (new-width / full-width) * full-height = new-height. For a detailed explanation about this step, refer to the Center image properties section below.

Reviewer: I think we should avoid hyphen separated words in a formula which could reasonably have `-` to mean subtraction.

We should also avoid "below" as it's not sympathetic to screen readers -- https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#below

nit: semantic line breaks and some paragraphs for readability.

```suggestion
- Optionally, you can add the `width` and `height` properties to help optimize the page.
  
  If you're using a raster image, such as a PNG or JPG file, you can set the properties with the original image values, without pixels or percentages.
  For example, for a 800x600 image, you can add `width="800" height="600"`.
  
  For a vector image, you have to calculate the values based on the width you want for the image with the formula: (new_width / full_width) * full_height = new_height.
  For a detailed explanation about this step, refer to the later **Center image properties** section.
```

Similar changes should be made to the explanation at the end of the collapsed section.

> - Optionally, you can add the `width` and `height` properties to help optimize the page. If you're using a raster image, such as a PNG or JPG file, you can set the properties with the original image values, without pixels or percentages. For example, for a 800x600 image, you can add `width="800" height="600"`. For a vector image, you have to calculate the values based on the width you want for the image with the formula: (new-width / full-width) * full-height = new-height. For a detailed explanation about this step, refer to the Center image properties section below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- While technically optional, including the `width` and `height` properties is a best practice that helps with image and page optimization. For raster images, such as PNG or JPG files, the properties should be set to the image's original dimensions, without pixels or percentages. For example, the properties for a PNG whose original dimensions are 800x600 pixels would be`width="800" height="600"`. For a vector image, calculate the values based on the desired image width, using the formula: `(new_width / full_width) * full_height = new_height`. For a detailed explanation about this step, refer to the "Center image properties" section below.
```

Author: @nate-walters-grafana thanks for the feedback! I accepted a suggestion from Jack that changed this section a bit, but I made a commit and I picked a few of the edits you made here and added it to that section as well. 🙏

> This is an example for centering a PNG image that's 1275x738 pixels:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to center a PNG whose original dimensions are 1275x738 pixels:
```

```markdown
{{</* figure src="/static/img/docs/grafana-cloud/k8sPods.png" width="1275" height="738" max-width="500px" class="w-100p" link-class="w-fit mx-auto d-flex flex-direction-column" caption="Pod view in Grafana Kubernetes Monitoring" caption-align="center" */>}}
```

> For more details about what each parameter does, refer to the section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about what each parameter does, refer to the following section.
```

  - `d-flex` sets the figure element to be a flex container.
  - `flex-direction-column` specifies the direction of the flex container's layout. In this case, the child elements are stacked vertically, as opposed to flex-direction-row, which displays the child elements horizontally.
- The `width`, or `max-width` property, is necessary to calculate the difference between the image's width and the container size. While only the `width` or `max-width` value is necessary for the purposes of centering, it's best practice to set both `width` and `height`.

Setting the `width` and `height` properties is recommended because it allows the browser to optimize delivery of the image and account for the user's device and display dimensions, and service up a smaller image if the full-sized image isn't needed. Providing both values also allows the browser to correctly calculate a placeholder space when images are lazy loaded. This helps with [preventing reflow](https://css-tricks.com/preventing-content-reflow-from-lazy-loaded-images/), which is the cause of most instances where links in an article's Table of Contents don't land on the correct section.

> For raster images, such as PNG or JPG files, width and height should usually be set to the original dimensions of the image. That provides the greatest flexibility for image optimization. However, for SVG images, width should typically be set to 100% and height left blank. That will expand the image to fill its container while maintaining the image's aspect ratio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For raster images, such as PNG or JPG files, `width` and `height` should usually be set to the original dimensions of the image. Doing so provides the greatest flexibility for image optimization. For SVG images, however, `width` should typically be set to 100% and height left blank. That will expand the image to fill its container while maintaining the image's aspect ratio.
```

  
  For a vector image, you have to calculate the values based on the width you want for the image with the formula: `(new_width / full_width) * full_height = new_height`.
  For a detailed explanation about this step, refer to the later **Center image properties** section.

The following example shows how to center a PNG file whose original dimensions are 1275x738 pixels:

```markdown
{{</* figure src="/static/img/docs/grafana-cloud/k8sPods.png" width="1275" height="738" max-width="500px" class="w-100p" link-class="w-fit mx-auto d-flex flex-direction-column" caption="Pod view in Grafana Kubernetes Monitoring" caption-align="center" */>}}
```

For more details about what each parameter does, refer to the following section.

{{< collapse title="Center image properties" >}}

<!-- vale Grafana.GoogleWill = NO -->
<!-- vale Grafana.GoogleOxfordComma = NO -->

When centering an image on a page, each property you have to add to the `<figure>` shortcode has a different purpose:

- The `class="w-100p"` property specifies that the `<figure>` element should take up 100% of the width of its container.
- The `link-class` attribute values are:

>   - `w-fit` specifies that the width of the `<a>` element that wraps around the image should fit its contents. For example, if the image's width is 500px, the width of its parent `<a>` element will be set to match.

Author: @jdbaldry I don't know why `prettier` is yelling at me, can you please help here? 😭 

I ran it from VSCode and from the CLI, and it says it's formatted. :(
